# voithos
Database Administrator Assistant

Within last few decades, the era of computers grew with out leaps and bounds, cutting down the cost of computing. But with such a radical growth, too many varied techonologies spourted, to ease the life of application developers and to meet the needs of users with minimal turn around time. Mastering each and every one of these technologies isn't an easy job and finding developers proficient in multitude of technologies is also a cumbersome task, not to mention if the technology is anew or grew to be obsolete. Databases aren't an exception to this, if you have had atleast a few years of experience on application development you can find yourself surrounded by diverse databases. Not only they vary in term of their storage and usage patterns but also they are quite a bit diverse in their setup and maintenance. Large firms that rely on multiple heterogeneous databases, employ a large number database administrators, atleast a few specialized per one type of database used to safegaurd their databases, while small and medium range firms try to offload this work by relying on the external firms providing "database as a services (DBaaS)", if their data isn't too proprietary. However, the firms that provide DBaaS will ultimately rely on database administrators, if they are offering customized DB services or tend to provide a limited set of services which they specialize in. With every users accessing the internet, the data produced will grow and with every application, aimed to solve a specific problem the need for a new data access pattern arises and with it a new DataBase Management System. Yet again, the hunt for the versatile database administrator will be set in motion by the firms.

The knowledge required to setup a new database is mostly inferred from an existing documentation or by following the overall industry patterns, ofcourse a few customizations are made as per the individual firms or applications standards.

"voithos" is aonther name for an assitant in Greek. Thus the name of the platform became - "voithos". Even though the primary target of this platform is to make the lifes of database adminstrator easier, it also helps in taking care of the trivial matters like resiliency model, scaling capabilities, fault tolerance, etc., while provide a rich set of tools to create your own deployment model. Another aspect of this application, is to track every bit of data stored in all the nodes of the 
